README for dc21x utils

System requirements:
Kodak digital camera, model DC210 or DC215.  Only tested with DC215Zoom.
C Compiler
Serial port

Purpose of this package:

Soon after getting my DC215 I downloaded gPhoto (www.gphoto.org) to use with
my new camera.  gPhoto is nice, but after using it for a while I found too
many annoying bugs in the Kodak DC21x library.  One of the possible uses for
the camera is a webcam, and in current version gPhoto command line mode does
not produce any images on my camera.  Whoever coded kodak_dc210 library must
have been one hell of a loser coder.  Anyway, I took that as a base for my
program, modified almost everything except for the select() read routine,
and put it together in this little package.  It is not designed to be a
replacement for gPhoto, but as a general purpose web-cam / camera maintenance
program.

What you can do with it:

* Display camera or specific picture information;
* Display number of pictures in the camera;
* Delete any picture from the camera;
* Delete all pictures from the camera in one step;
* Take picture, save to file, delete picture from the camera in one step;
* Retrieve any picture and save to file;
* Retrieve all pictures, and save to current directory as imageNNN.jpg;
* Set resolution to High or Low before taking a picture;
* Set picture quality before taking a picture;
* Set Flash mode before taking a picture;
* Set Zoom value before taking a picture;

Run "cam" without any parameters for a complete list of possible options.
Some options can be combined to make cam usable inside scripts.
Please use common sense, and don't combine options like -d and -R, or -t and -d

Why did I write this?

Because I was bored on Dec 31st 1999.

I reverse engineered the zoom, flash and quality settings by running the 16
bit Windows SDK under wine, and writing a simple patch to the Write16/Read16
wine routines to display serial reads/writes in hex and in a nice greppable
order. :)  The 32 bit SDK was so hosed, it didn't even run.  Good thing they
still had 16 bit (Windows 3.1) stuff available for download.  This was also
used to confirm the other settings. Names for the flash and quality settings
were taken from the DC2xx SDK for 32 bit Windows.
